---
categories: new-zealand integrated-care
date: '2017-05-08 13:16:22'
description: 'interRAI assessments. Refer www.interrai.org

  Comprehensive clinical assessment for mainly 65+ age group that receive publically
  funded health services in the community and residential care settings'
id: interrai
layout: post
link: http://www.health.govt.nz/our-work/ehealth/other-ehealth-initiatives/common-clinical-information/comprehensive-clinical-assessment-aged-care-interrai
provider: Ministry of Health
tags:
- elderly
- nzte-report
title: InterRAI
---


 <h4> <u>Description:</u> </h4>
interRAI assessments. Refer www.interrai.org
Comprehensive clinical assessment for mainly 65+ age group that receive publically funded health services in the community and residential care settings
 <h4> <u>Additional information:</u> </h4>
 <table style="border: 1px solid">
 <tr> <td width="40%">Have_(encrypted)_NHI</td> <td>Yes</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Personally identifiable (e.g. linked to NHI numbers) and longitudinal or aggregated (e.g. for planning, clinical research etc.)?</td> <td>both</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Volume of data (e.g. how many records)
Since when?</td> <td>143,014 as of 10/5/2014</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Purpose and governance including ethics committee/patient consent mechanisms. Q: How do you get around ethics/privacy issues with your data sources? Esp. DHBs?</td> <td>clients consent to assessment and therefore colection of information. Specific question related to secondary uses of data collected as part of the assessment process. We have an information governance model and an emerging information governance group that incorporates requirements under the HIPC Privacy act etc</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Scope</td> <td>National</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Does the data contain diagnoses and clinical outcomes?
Does the data contain procedures, device information and medication for therapy?
Does this data set have cost / price data?</td> <td>clinical outcome measures and other items such as quality indicators are calulated from the assessment information</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Presence of Data dictionary? Column headings in Excel or any kind of data model if residing in a relational database (e.g. Access, SQL Server, Oracle etc.) </td> <td>the data dictionary is owned by interRAI, so yes it exists as it is in effect the actual assessment form itself. Data model exists with the system that we use</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Linked (or linkable) to other datasets within your organisation or across the Sector</td> <td>linkable due to NHI</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">How often does this data set get updated? Daily? Weekly? Monthly? Quarterly? Yearly?</td> <td>daily</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Indication of data quality (e.g. missing values, duplications, inconsistencies etc.). Q: Audits? How do you ensure the data is valid and correct?</td> <td>the data is error checked at point of entry by clinical staff as part of how the interRAI methodology is structured</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Brief info about the systems and processes used to collect/manage data. Q: Where the data is collected, in what form, and accessibility?</td> <td>collected as part of daily clinical assessment processes for assessors, colected from mainly community based clients and now residential care based clients. Some collected as part of acute care/in-patient rehabilitation services and some from primary care services</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Data format, e.g., data structure, data types, and storage form (relational database, Excel, csv, etc.).</td> <td>stored in relational database and data warehouse. DHBs are given extracts to use as required</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">How well the data is structured, e.g. free text VS coded text VS pick-list (drop-down list)</td> <td>all coded apart from client demographics</td> </tr>
 </table>