---
categories: new-zealand public-health-and-research
date: '2017-05-08 13:16:22'
description: 'Purpose is infections disease reference typing and surveilance. Includes
  all lab reporting and data are primarily generated by ESR. '
id: lab_infectious_disease_dataset
layout: post
link: http://www.esr.cri.nz/
provider: Institute of Environmental Science and Research
tags:
- laboratory
- nzte-report
title: Lab infectious disease dataset
---


 <h4> <u>Description:</u> </h4>
Purpose is infections disease reference typing and surveilance. Includes all lab reporting and data are primarily generated by ESR. 
 <h4> <u>Additional information:</u> </h4>
 <table style="border: 1px solid">
 <tr> <td width="40%">Have_(encrypted)_NHI</td> <td>Yes</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Personally identifiable (e.g. linked to NHI numbers) and longitudinal or aggregated (e.g. for planning, clinical research etc.)?</td> <td>Yes - via NHI</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Volume of data (e.g. how many records)
Since when?</td> <td>?</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Purpose and governance including ethics committee/patient consent mechanisms. Q: How do you get around ethics/privacy issues with your data sources? Esp. DHBs?</td> <td>collect on behalf of MoH - just custodians. No link to other stakeholders or consumer groups.
Data access: happens through DAP - ESR manages external data requests but MoH approves. Internal access list is applied</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Scope</td> <td>National</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Does the data contain diagnoses and clinical outcomes?
Does the data contain procedures, device information and medication for therapy?
Does this data set have cost / price data?</td> <td>Partly: Demographics, Diagnoses, suspected organism from Labs and other survey questions</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Presence of Data dictionary? Column headings in Excel or any kind of data model if residing in a relational database (e.g. Access, SQL Server, Oracle etc.) </td> <td>Case definition available</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Linked (or linkable) to other datasets within your organisation or across the Sector</td> <td>linkable but not linked</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">How often does this data set get updated? Daily? Weekly? Monthly? Quarterly? Yearly?</td> <td>Real time</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Indication of data quality (e.g. missing values, duplications, inconsistencies etc.). Q: Audits? How do you ensure the data is valid and correct?</td> <td>reasonably good.</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Brief info about the systems and processes used to collect/manage data. Q: Where the data is collected, in what form, and accessibility?</td> <td>Lab data comes in automatically through HL7 interface. Survey questions come from GPs.</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Data format, e.g., data structure, data types, and storage form (relational database, Excel, csv, etc.).</td> <td>Data goes into RDBMS</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">How well the data is structured, e.g. free text VS coded text VS pick-list (drop-down list)</td> <td>all structured</td> </tr>
 </table>