---
categories: new-zealand administrative
date: '2017-05-08 13:16:22'
description: 'They don''t actually collect any data but do analyses, mostly clinical
  audit/performance type, at individual GP practices. So no data is taken outside
  the practices and aggregated.

  They have a new product called CareInsight, with appropriate consent, that links
  to GP practices, hospitals, labs and pharmacies and provide a virtual care record.
  Again no data is taken outside individual steward organisation.

  Currently run in over 200 practices, 4-5 DHB regions and pharms.'
id: drinfo
layout: post
link: https://www.drinfo.co.nz/
provider: Dr Info.
tags:
- gp
- primary-care
- nzte-report
title: DrInfo
---


 <h4> <u>Description:</u> </h4>
They don't actually collect any data but do analyses, mostly clinical audit/performance type, at individual GP practices. So no data is taken outside the practices and aggregated.
They have a new product called CareInsight, with appropriate consent, that links to GP practices, hospitals, labs and pharmacies and provide a virtual care record. Again no data is taken outside individual steward organisation.
Currently run in over 200 practices, 4-5 DHB regions and pharms.
 <h4> <u>Additional information:</u> </h4>
 <table style="border: 1px solid">
 <tr> <td width="40%">Have_(encrypted)_NHI</td> <td>Yes</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Personally identifiable (e.g. linked to NHI numbers) and longitudinal or aggregated (e.g. for planning, clinical research etc.)?</td> <td>Yes - all NHI but do data are aggregated.</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Volume of data (e.g. how many records)
Since when?</td> <td>potentially a large portion of population</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Purpose and governance including ethics committee/patient consent mechanisms. Q: How do you get around ethics/privacy issues with your data sources? Esp. DHBs?</td> <td>requires patient consent and agreements with each steward organisation. Currently no data is aggregated.</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Scope</td> <td>Provider</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Does the data contain diagnoses and clinical outcomes?
Does the data contain procedures, device information and medication for therapy?
Does this data set have cost / price data?</td> <td>Yes - a virtual health record</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Presence of Data dictionary? Column headings in Excel or any kind of data model if residing in a relational database (e.g. Access, SQL Server, Oracle etc.) </td> <td>Data definition of each connected data source is present and also the final output. It is not public and owned by HealthLink and sent to HISO for potential standardisation</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Linked (or linkable) to other datasets within your organisation or across the Sector</td> <td>Yes - they have been asked to link to National Collections</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">How often does this data set get updated? Daily? Weekly? Monthly? Quarterly? Yearly?</td> <td>real-time</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Indication of data quality (e.g. missing values, duplications, inconsistencies etc.). Q: Audits? How do you ensure the data is valid and correct?</td> <td>this is a virtual record - as good as source data (PMS, labs, DHBs and pharms)</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Brief info about the systems and processes used to collect/manage data. Q: Where the data is collected, in what form, and accessibility?</td> <td>They use standard messaging and also direct connection to databases. No new data is collected. </td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Data format, e.g., data structure, data types, and storage form (relational database, Excel, csv, etc.).</td> <td>as per source data - no storage</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">How well the data is structured, e.g. free text VS coded text VS pick-list (drop-down list)</td> <td>as per source data</td> </tr>
 </table>