---
categories: new-zealand dhb
date: '2017-05-08 09:07:52'
description: 'Cathlab Clinical System '
id: wdhbxims
layout: post
link: http://www.waitematadhb.govt.nz/
provider: Waitemata District Health Board
tags:
- hospital
- nzte-report
title: WDHB-XIMS
---


 <h4> <u>Description:</u> </h4>
Cathlab Clinical System 
 <h4> <u>Additional information:</u> </h4>
 <table style="border: 1px solid">
 <tr> <td width="40%">Have_(encrypted)_NHI</td> <td>Yes</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Personally identifiable (e.g. linked to NHI numbers) and longitudinal or aggregated (e.g. for planning, clinical research etc.)?</td> <td>Yes</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Purpose and governance including ethics committee/patient consent mechanisms. Q: How do you get around ethics/privacy issues with your data sources? Esp. DHBs?</td> <td>All Ethics/Access issues are primarly handled by Awhina Research & Management group otherwise via the company lawyer</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Scope</td> <td>Provider</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Does the data contain diagnoses and clinical outcomes?
Does the data contain procedures, device information and medication for therapy?
Does this data set have cost / price data?</td> <td>Has procedures/diagnoses and some clinical outcomes </td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Linked (or linkable) to other datasets within your organisation or across the Sector</td> <td>Yes</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">How often does this data set get updated? Daily? Weekly? Monthly? Quarterly? Yearly?</td> <td>Daily</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">Data format, e.g., data structure, data types, and storage form (relational database, Excel, csv, etc.).</td> <td>Relational Database</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">How well the data is structured, e.g. free text VS coded text VS pick-list (drop-down list)</td> <td>Structured</td> </tr>
 <tr> <td width="40%">How quickly can the data be made available from time of request and how old is the data once it is made available</td> <td>HG: reseasonably quick - Researchers requiring identifiable data will usually need approval from an Ethics Committee and WDHB Knowledge Centre (who facilitate privacy compliance and ethics approval for all research requests).</td> </tr>
 </table>